[Music]
have you asked me anything
closet how's it going how does it feel
incredible it's dr koh here from reset
ketamine and you might be wondering why
don't health insurance companies cover
iv ketamine treatments for depression
they can feel like this very out of body
experience
where
uh it almost feels like it's way more in
the background and they have a lot of
memories that can come up similar to
mdma but not to the same degree it can
feel very pathogenic people can feel
this deep sense of connection with
others dylan bynum is the founder and
ceo of mindbloom his company is making
ketamine therapy more affordable and
available for about half of all
americans including those who live in
texas we are helping to radically
increase access to ketamine therapy by
making it more approachable through a
friendly consumer brand
affordable we've lowered the price by
eighty percent from the average academy
therapy provider and available through
telemedicine some of the main arguments
against getting iv ketamine covered by
insurance companies is number one it's
not fda approved for the use in mood
disorders what are the thoughts that are
in your
mind that we're all
connected
that we're all together
that like
we
it's just so clear like we
are all in this together
one out of four adolescents actually
experience a major depressive disorder
unfortunately ssris which are the
standard treatment can take four to
eight weeks to kick in and studies have
shown that up to 40 percent of teenagers
are non-responsive to traditional
treatments like ssris this is where
ketamine comes in ketaminic is rapidly
effective and can work in teams what is
this we're all in this together what is
this
[Applause]
[Music]
well i mean
like our our lives our purpose our
soul we're all
[Music]
it's crazy how we're all together
yeah
my first experience with psychedelics
that was was important that actually
shifted my view of human possibility was
with mdma what was revelatory about it
was that it was
it was an experience of absolute
sobriety it was not there's no druggy
component to it
we just became clearer and clearer and
clearer in our thinking and
feeling
and the crucial
component of this was
a loss of any feeling of self-concern i
was considering doing ect
i was desperate even though it did not
sound incredibly hopeful
it was
the only thing that i
that i had left
and
fortunately
at that point i was connected with sage
clinic and
um
and the ketamine treatment
you know it's very hard to explain for
somebody you know who's never had a
psychedelic experience
um it's
it's an entire shift of
thinking and of
you know of being the more it starts to
kick in
you know you not only
not only see
um
you know objects become
more
fluid and
and there's a light that's like behind
everything it's like you can almost see
the energy that is
that is making up our reality
the further it goes
um it's like it's stripping away
layers of
of illusion
i can tell that i'm very
[Music]
um
everyone can feel what it
what it is like
to feel this connected
to everyone
i want to highlight a couple of studies
there was one study that looked at
teenagers who were treatment resistant
and after the ketamine infusions they
found a rapid reduction in depressive
symptoms another study looked at
adolescent rats this is a little bit
different and they found that the rats
who had received intravenous ketamine
who were then later exposed to a
stressful situation they found that the
rats had decreased depression-like
behavior on later subsequent tests
lastly in a 2018 study 13 adolescents
who were not responsive to traditional
antidepressants were given intravenous
ketamine out of those 13 five of those
teenagers had a complete remission of
their depression and out of those five
three teenagers were completely
depression free for up to six weeks
also when we use ketamine on teenagers
the brain seems to be more plastic at
that age and if we can target them
earlier rather than later this could
significantly change the trajectory of
their overall life
this is
yes
this is this is incredible
yeah
this is this is amazing
i wish people could hear what i'm
hearing right now
you know
i just um
i feel really
like grounded
[Music]
if you thought it was hard to talk
people that are taking a pill to solve
all their problems back in the 1990s
it's the 21st century and just you watch
because the 21st century is not over yet
we are now tangling with drugs that are
much
much more convincing to people than the
crude ssri antidepressants of the 1990s
if you were taking prozac back in the
1990s you could barely perceive the
supposed benefits you had to talk
yourself into it you had to convince
yourself by by engaging in a
semi-philosophical pseudoscientific
discourse that situated you in this
theory that you yes you were born
special you're born different from other
people you have a so-called biochemical
imbalance in the brain is there a blood
test for that no is there some kind of
x-ray some kind of mri scan for you no
no if you die and then you have an
autopsy of the brain can we then take
the brain apart no no there's absolutely
no scientific proof that it's ever
existed whatsoever don't don't think
about it don't worry about it you're
special yes you unlike your brother
unlike your sister unlike your mother
you're not just experiencing sorrow
regret anguish disappointment with your
life no no no no you were born different
from other people you have a biochemical
imbalance in your brain and you're so
lucky that back in the 1990s we
discovered this wonder drug that's
perfectly suited to cure what's wrong
with you oh yeah that was the hard part
the hard part was not that people
enjoyed being on the drugs it's that
they enjoyed making excuses for them
this whole framework of excuses
pseudoscientific semi philosophical and
that subtle ego trip that they believed
they were special and that they had
found the cure for what had been wrong
with them from the day they were born
and would continue to be wrong with them
until the day that they died but now
that they've found the cure now that
they're taking this pill they can turn
their life around they can do new and
different things see what a powerful
placebo effect that could be that's what
we were fighting against in the 1990s
but fundamentally
when people went into the doctor's
office
to get those drugs in the 1990s the one
thing they were not getting is high
nobody walked into their doctor's office
sad and walked out happy and what you've
just seen in this film is people being
over the moon overjoyed ecstatic after
having their drug trip on ketamine
and ketamine is not the only drug to
watch out for
testosterone use for both genders male
and female as never before changes how
you feel when you wake up in the morning
getting on testosterone more subtle
forms of performance enhancing drugs
like so-called sarms s-a-r-m-s all right
ketamine is not going to be alone in
this
but when you take that mind-altering
psychedelic experience that people used
to experience at
music festivals at discos at raves at
house parties
when you take it and you situate it
inside a laboratory inside a hospital
inside a clinic when you have someone
wearing a white lab coat
reassuring you that this is the cure
for something deep down inside you
that's wrong
now that's a powerful drug trip
and a lot of people are going to make a
lot of money
from telling desperate anguished souls
exactly what it is
that they want to hear people find it
reassuring to imagine that depression or
major depressive disorder or treatment
resistant depression is something
scientifically
real
falsifiable verifiable and that's
medically wrong with them in their mind
in their body and their soul and then
once they believe that they can take the
next step
into believing that there is a pill or
there is an injection or there is a
psychedelic drug trip
that can fix what's wrong with them and
what we have to fix instead is that
first and most fundamental delusion that
we can offer any
falsifiable scientifically real criteria
that would differentiate so-called
depression from what we otherwise just
call
sorrow anguish
sadness misery the vast majority of
people
are miserable are sad or are depressed
for shallow reasons that are nearly
self-evident to all of their friends and
loved ones who surround them whether or
not those friends and loved ones are
willing to be honest with them i have
known
several
heterosexual women
who got married
to gay men they didn't know
that those men were gay when they
married them the men in question may not
have known themselves they may have been
in denial about it or what have you
that's a pretty reliable formula
for an unhappy marriage okay you got an
unhappy marriage what now do you want to
go down to the clinic and get high on
ketamine do you think you've solved your
problems do you think you've improved
your life through this transcendental
hallucinogenic experience
when you go home again you've still got
an unhappy marriage but now you've got
an unhappy marriage the beginnings of a
drug habit quite possibly a drug
addiction
and you've had your first dose
of cumulative irreversible brain damage
and that brain damage is going to
progress each and every time you go back
to the clinic to try to feel better
about yourself and the reality is you
aren't solving the problems in your real
life that made you want to go to the
clinic in the first place whether that
is because you have an unhappy marriage
because you hate your job because you
hate your parents because you hate your
life
a lot of people
are going to get rich
by telling you to get high
and i'm not gonna make one dollar
by telling you right now
get a life
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice